Today, volatility is everywhere.
>> Stocks rally as the S&P recoups its
wartime losses.
>> Market may be trying to figure out if
they should listen to good cop or bad
cop.
>> Certainly, that's going to have an
impact on global growth.
>> In the middle of all this, some players
are reaping huge rewards.
Can you guess who?
>> They're tech savants, highly
quantitative, pretty secretive, smart,
innovative. They're best in class at
what they do,
>> [music]
>> and they're sitting at the top of the
totem pole of all the Wall Street firms.
>> So, who are we talking about? [music]
>> Jane Street.
>> Okay, but why are they such a big deal?
Well, the firm just made a
record-setting haul, over 39 billion in
2025, out pacing the big banks and
rivals.
>> The firm is generating billions of
dollars. The pace at which it is doing
that is unlike anything that I think
people anticipated would even happen.
>> Even 5 years ago, it would have been
unthinkable to paint a scenario where
Jane Street would have pulled in more
trading revenue than the biggest players
on Wall Street.
>> Money making at this pace has raised
concerns that firms like Jane Street
have an unfair advantage.
>> The high-frequency trading segment is
under scrutiny after SEBI accused Jane
Street Group of [music] manipulating
stock and derivatives markets, a claim
the US trading giant denies.
>> This unwanted attention is mounting and
threatens to reveal more secrets.
>> Jane Street's combined the world of
poker and the concept of solving
problems really, really well.
>> So, how long can Jane Street stay under
[music] the radar while holding the best
cards on Wall Street?
Once upon a time, Wall Street was like
this.
But the stock market has changed.
>> Imagine a high-speed game of buy and
sell happening on computers all over the
world every second.
>> A combination of innovation and a lot of
money moving around very rapidly.
>> A human blinks their eye in about 400
milliseconds. In about that same time of
high-frequency trading computer can
execute hundreds, if not thousands, of
trade. That is the kind of tech edge
we're talking about. It's not just
identifying the right price, but being
able to get there before anyone else to
execute that trade.
>> Jane Street [music] is the middleman.
You can think of the apps Robinhood,
Schwab, and the ability to buy a share
of Apple.
You don't know it, necessarily, but
there are players out there helping
[music] facilitate that order.
>> We have seen an explosion in the type of
ways that you could trade any financial
instrument. It could just be a plain
vanilla stock. It could be a derivative
tied to the stock.
>> [music]
>> As these products get traded in
different formats and different
geographies, there is always going to be
a little bit of price inefficiency.
>> [music]
>> Price inefficiency means differences. By
buying a bunch of something where prices
are low and selling it where prices are
high, you can profit from the [music]
difference. It's a process called
arbitrage. And by doing this over and
over in milliseconds, Jane Street is
making billions. Increasingly, the firm
has been holding some positions for
hours,
>> [music]
>> days, maybe even weeks. But it's
matching of buyers to sellers is why
Jane Street and firms like it are called
market [music] makers.
Their role injects cash into this
system, aka creating liquidity.
>> Liquidity is money and is very important
particularly when when an issue or like
JP Morgan is launching a new strategy.
The early days of an ETF are very
important to provide more liquidity and
that encourages investors to come in and
out of ETFs.
>> [music]
>> ETFs or exchange-traded funds are like a
basket of [music] assets that trade as
one package. They're often cheaper than
other investment products,
>> [music]
>> helping more people get a piece of the
pie.
>> 20 years ago, I ran a big [music]
portion of JP Morgan Asset Management. I
had heard of Jane Street, but I had no
clue that they were an important part of
the ecosystem and that was really a
reflection of the fact that ETFs were a
small piece of the business at that
[music] point.
>> Jane Street's place in this ecosystem
has paid off as the popularity of ETFs
have exploded.
More are coming to market every year.
The money flowing into them keeps
growing and the amount they're trading
is pushing 60 trillion.
>> Jane Street, I think, very early on saw
an opportunity to distinguish itself
around solving for the complexity of ETF
market making at a time where other
banks were much slower to put resources
into that.
>> [music]
>> It's worth stopping to appreciate the
sheer amount of data being processed
here.
ETFs are made of dozens, sometimes
hundreds, and even thousands of
individual securities and their pricing
needs to reflect these underlying
securities. [music]
Designing the rules or algorithms that
enable that pricing requires serious
chops.
And Jane Street employees have them.
>> The culture of Jane Street
>> [music]
>> is one of puzzle-solving, very
mathematical, quantitative
professionals.
>> This has become a very desirable place
for smart people to go work at.
>> Jane Street's roughly 3,500 employees
split amongst themselves 9.4 billion in
compensation in 2025.
That's a lot of money to go around.
>> [music]
>> I've been to every firm on Wall Street
in the financial industry, and I've
never stepped foot on Jane Street's
trading floor.
I would love to kind of talk a lot about
Jane Street's technology, but I can say
this, nobody knows anything about Jane
Street's technology that doesn't work
there.
>> Maintaining a low profile helps Jane
Street protect its secrets.
The company declined to comment for this
video.
>> The interesting thing about Jane Street
is to the outside world, there is no
designated leader. It says it's a flat
organization. Of the four founding
members, the only one who's left behind
is Rob Granieri.
>> Granieri is a bit of an unconventional
character on Wall Street. He's a Bernie
man regular and owns a casino in
Mississippi where a John Travolta movie
was filmed.
>> [music]
>> And according to his lawyer, his
long-time support of human rights is
what prompted him to get duped into
funding an alleged coup against the
government of South Sudan. Even [music]
finding photos of Granieri is hard,
adding to the firm's mystique.
>> If you think about it, the only reason a
wider audience even started hearing
about Jane Street was because it was
ID'd as the launchpad of Sam
Bankman-Fried, the crypto wunderkind who
flamed out spectacularly.
>> Connections [music] to the failed crypto
exchange FTX keeps nipping at Jane
Street's heels, and the publicity
threatens to further crack the firm's
shell.
>> [music]
>> But it's a very public regulatory matter
in India that's shed the most light into
Jane Street's inner workings.
>> It all started when two of their traders
were jumping ship to a rival firm. They
were worried some of their proprietary
trading strategies would be used at
Millennium where those two traders were
going, and they sued those two traders.
>> [music]
>> That legal spat, of course, caught the
attention of everyone on Wall Street.
>> The case involving Jane Street's former
employees was settled, but the probe
into Jane Street's India operation
continues.
>> India's option market has been growing
really in the last few years. The
regulators in India looked at Jane
Street's [music] activity, and
essentially they considered it
manipulative in the way that they were
able to influence [music]
the way that prices were moving to their
benefit. Now, Jane Street, in their
defense, has said that the way that they
were trading and the market movement,
they were providing a service.
>> The problem for Jane Street is that the
India probe has meant that there are
just a lot more eyeballs looking at what
they do, how they do it, and how much
money they're making.
>> Bloomberg has learned that China is
examining how Jane Street [music] Group
participates in its $859 billion ETF
market.
>> So, what is a problem in India today
could expand into a headache in other
markets.
>> [music]
>> One issue for regulators is that while
market volatility can be dangerous for
everyday people and their finances, many
in the industry directly benefit.
>> The way markets have performed, the
absolute rally that we've seen in the US
and elsewhere, the fact that it has
attracted a retail investor base like
never before, that has meant that people
in the middle of the buy and sell
[music] orders will just have a
successful run, and Jane Street is
certainly reaping the benefits of that.
>> Jane Street's capital stockpile has
grown to 53 billion, which allows it to
sometimes behave like a hedge fund.
>> Savvy bets, especially on some of those
big artificial intelligence companies
like Anthropic, and the surge in
valuation for some of those companies
has meant a sweet tailwind for Jane
Street.
>> But, [music] at the end of the day, a
hedge fund, the money that they're
trading with is their clients.
Jane Street [music]
is just reporting to themselves. The
money that they make is their own, and
the money that [music] they lose is
theirs to lose.
Jane Street also enjoys a level of
freedom compared to banks, which, after
[music] the financial crisis, have to
play by a stricter set of rules.
>> 2008 was a traumatic moment. The banks,
in the aftermath of it, not
surprisingly, became the bad guys.
Regulation came in and made certain
functions for the banks more difficult
for them to do.
Doors opened, and here came firms like
Jane Street. They kind of ran through
it.
>> Just because Jane Street isn't a bank
doesn't mean it's not regulated.
>> [music]
>> It is. It has to abide by the rules of
the markets in which they trade. And
some days they might lose money, but
over time,
>> [music]
>> they are developing the systems to be
smarter about how they're making money.
And sometimes [music] losing money is
how you get smarter to make money in the
future.
>> They're going to push and prod [music]
the rest of the industry to keep up with
them.
I think the Jane Street story [music]
is going to be a long one.
>> Oh.